README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/kettanaito/naming-cheatsheet">
    <img src="./naming-cheatsheet.png" alt="Naming cheatsheet" />
  </a>
</p>

# Naming cheatsheet

- [Naming convention](#naming-convention)
- [S-I-D](#s-i-d)
- [Avoid contractions](#avoid-contractions)
- [Avoid context duplication](#avoid-context-duplication)
- [Reflect expected result](#reflect-expected-result)
- [Naming functions](#naming-functions)
  - [A/HC/LC pattern](#ahclc-pattern)
    - [Actions](#actions)
    - [Context](#context)
    - [Prefixes](#prefixes)
- [Singular and Plurals](#singular-and-plurals)

---

Naming things is hard. This sheet attempts to make it easier.

Although these suggestions can be applied to any programming language, I will use JavaScript to illustrate them in practice.

## Naming convention

Pick **one** naming convention and follow it. It may be `cammelCase`, or `snake_case`, or anyhow else, it does not matter. What matters is for it to remain consistent.

```js
/* Bad */
const pages_count = 5
const shouldUpdate = true

/* Good */
const pagesCount = 5
const shouldUpdate = true

/* Good as well */
const pages_count = 5
const should_update = true
```

## S-I-D

A name must be _short_, _intuitive_ and _descriptive_:

- **Short**. A name must not take long to type and, therefore, remember;
- **Intuitive**. A name must read naturally, as close to the common speech as possible;
- **Descriptive**. A name must reflect what it does/possesses in the most efficient way.

```js
/* Bad */
const a = 5 // "a" could mean anything
const isPaginatable = postsCount > 10 // "Paginatable" sounds extremely unnatural
const shouldPaginatize = postsCount > 10 // Made up verbs are so much fun!

/* Good */
const postsCount = 5
const hasPagination = postsCount > 10
const shouldDisplayPagination = postsCount > 10 // alternatively
```

## Avoid contractions

Do **not** use contractions. They contribute to nothing but decreased readability of the code. Finding a short, descriptive name may be hard, but contraction is not an excuse for not doing so.

```js
/* Bad */
const onItmClk = () => {}

/* Good */
const onItemClick = () => {}
```

## Avoid context duplication

A name should not duplicate the context in which it is defined. Always remove the context from a name if that doesn't decrease its readability.

```js
class MenuItem {
  /* Method name duplicates the context (which is "MenuItem") */
  handleMenuItemClick = (event) => { ... }

  /* Reads nicely as `MenuItem.handleClick()` */
  handleClick = (event) => { ... }
}
```

## Reflect expected result

A name should reflect the expected result.

```jsx
/* Bad */
const isEnabled = itemsCount > 3
return <Button disabled={!isEnabled} />

/* Good */
const isDisabled = itemsCount <= 3
return <Button disabled={isDisabled} />
```

---

# Naming functions

## A/HC/LC Pattern

There is a useful pattern to follow when naming functions:

```
prefix? + action (A) + high context (HC) + low context? (LC)
```

Take a look at how this pattern may be applied in the table below.

| Name                   | Prefix   | Action (A) | High context (HC) | Low context (LC) |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ---------------- |
| `getPost`              |          | `get`      | `Post`            |                  |
| `getPostData`          |          | `get`      | `Post`            | `Data`           |
| `handleClickOutside`   |          | `handle`   | `Click`           | `Outside`        |
| `shouldDisplayMessage` | `should` | `Display`  | `Message`         |                  |

> **Note:** The order of context affects the meaning of a variable. For example, `shouldUpdateComponent` means _you_ are about to update a component, while `shouldComponentUpdate` tells you that _component_ will update on itself, and you are but controlling whether it should do that right now.
> In other words, **high context emphasizes the meaning of a variable**.

---

## Actions

The verb part of your function name. The most important part responsible for describing what the function _does_.

### `get`

Accesses data immediately (i.e. shorthand getter of internal data).

```js
function getFruitsCount() {
  return this.fruits.length
}
```

> See also [compose](#compose).

### `set`

Sets a variable in a declarative way, with value `A` to value `B`.

```js
const fruits = 0

function setFruits(nextFruits) {
  fruits = nextFruits
}

setFruits(5)
console.log(fruits) // 5
```

### `reset`

Sets a variable back to its initial value or state.

```js
const initialFruits = 5
const fruits = initialFruits
setFruits(10)
console.log(fruits) // 10

function resetFruits() {
  fruits = initialFruits
}

resetFruits()
console.log(fruits) // 5
```

### `fetch`

Requests for a data, which takes time (i.e. async request).

```js
function fetchPosts(postCount) {
  return fetch('https://api.dev/posts', {...})
}
```

### `remove`

Removes something _from_ somewhere.

For example, if you have a collection of selected filters on a search page, removing one of them from the collection is `removeFilter`, **not** `deleteFilter` (and this is how you would naturally say it in English as well):

```js
function removeFilter(filterName, filters) {
  return filters.filter((name) => name !== filterName)
}

const selectedFilters = ['price', 'availability', 'size']
removeFilter('price', selectedFilters)
```

> See also [delete](#delete).

### `delete`

Completely erases something from the realms of existence.

Imagine you are a content editor, and there is that notorious post you wish to get rid of. Once you clicked a shiny "Delete post" button, the CMS performed a `deletePost` action, **not** `removePost`.

```js
function deletePost(id) {
  return database.find({ id }).delete()
}
```

> See also [remove](#remove).

### `compose`

Creates new data from the existing one. Mostly applicable to strings, objects, or functions.

```js
function composePageUrl(pageName, pageId) {
  return `${pageName.toLowerCase()}-${pageId}`
}
```

> See also [get](#get).

### `handle`

Handles an action. Often used when naming a callback method.

```js
function handleLinkClick() {
  console.log('Clicked a link!')
}

link.addEventListener('click', handleLinkClick)
```

---

## Context

A domain that a function operates on.

A function is often an action on _something_. It is important to state what is its operable domain, or at least an expected data type.

```js
/* A pure function operating with primitives */
function filter(predicate, list) {
  return list.filter(predicate)
}

/* Function operating exactly on posts */
function getRecentPosts(posts) {
  return filter(posts, (post) => post.date === Date.now())
}
```

> Some language-specific assumptions may allow omitting the context. For example, in JavaScript, it's common that `filter` operates on Array. Adding explicit `filterArray` would be unnecessary.

--

## Prefixes

Prefix enhances the meaning of a variable. It is rarely used in function names.

### `is`

Describes a characteristic or state of the current context (usually `boolean`).

```js
const color = 'blue'
const isBlue = color === 'blue' // characteristic
const isPresent = true // state

if (isBlue && isPresent) {
  console.log('Blue is present!')
}
```

### `has`

Describes whether the current context possesses a certain value or state (usually `boolean`).

```js
/* Bad */
const isProductsExist = productsCount > 0
const areProductsPresent = productsCount > 0

/* Good */
const hasProducts = productsCount > 0
```

### `should`

Reflects a positive conditional statement (usually `boolean`) coupled with a certain action.

```js
function shouldUpdateUrl(url, expectedUrl) {
  return url !== expectedUrl
}
```

### `min`/`max`

Represent minimum or maximum value. Used when describing boundaries or limits.

```js
/**
 * Renders random amount of posts within
 * the given min/max boundaries.
 */
function renderPosts(posts, minPosts, maxPosts) {
  return posts.slice(0, randomBetween(minPosts, maxPosts))
}
```

### `prev`/`next`

Indicate the previous or the next state of a variable in the current context. Used when describing state transitions.

```jsx
function fetchPosts() {
  const prevPosts = this.state.posts

  const fetchedPosts = fetch('...')
  const nextPosts = concat(prevPosts, fetchedPosts)

  this.setState({ posts: nextPosts })
}
```

## Singular and Plurals

Like a prefix, variable names can be made singular or plural depending on whether they hold a single value or multiple values.

```js
/* Bad */
const friends = 'Bob'
const friend = ['Bob', 'Tony', 'Tanya']

/* Good */
const friend = 'Bob'
const friends = ['Bob', 'Tony', 'Tanya']
```

Commit message:

Include last typo fixes from origin repo (#1)
This PR fixes some spelling and grammar mistakes

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/kettanaito/naming-cheatsheet">
    <img src="./naming-cheatsheet.png" alt="Naming cheatsheet" />
  </a>
</p>

# Naming cheatsheet

- [Naming convention](#naming-convention)
- [S-I-D](#s-i-d)
- [Avoid contractions](#avoid-contractions)
- [Avoid context duplication](#avoid-context-duplication)
- [Reflect expected result](#reflect-expected-result)
- [Naming functions](#naming-functions)
  - [A/HC/LC pattern](#ahclc-pattern)
    - [Actions](#actions)
    - [Context](#context)
    - [Prefixes](#prefixes)
- [Singular and Plurals](#singular-and-plurals)

---

Naming things is hard. This sheet attempts to make it easier.

Although these suggestions can be applied to any programming language, I will use JavaScript to illustrate them in practice.

## Naming convention

Pick **one** naming convention and follow it. It may be `camelCase`, or `snake_case`, or anyhow else, it does not matter. What matters is for it to remain consistent.

```js
/* Bad */
const pages_count = 5
const shouldUpdate = true

/* Good */
const pagesCount = 5
const shouldUpdate = true

/* Good as well */
const pages_count = 5
const should_update = true
```

## S-I-D

A name must be _short_, _intuitive_ and _descriptive_:

- **Short**. A name must not take long to type and, therefore, remember;
- **Intuitive**. A name must read naturally, as close to the common speech as possible;
- **Descriptive**. A name must reflect what it does/possesses in the most efficient way.

```js
/* Bad */
const a = 5 // "a" could mean anything
const isPaginatable = postsCount > 10 // "Paginatable" sounds extremely unnatural
const shouldPaginatize = postsCount > 10 // Made up verbs are so much fun!

/* Good */
const postsCount = 5
const hasPagination = postsCount > 10
const shouldDisplayPagination = postsCount > 10 // alternatively
```

## Avoid contractions

Do **not** use contractions. They contribute to nothing but decreased readability of the code. Finding a short, descriptive name may be hard, but contraction is not an excuse for not doing so.

```js
/* Bad */
const onItmClk = () => {}

/* Good */
const onItemClick = () => {}
```

## Avoid context duplication

A name should not duplicate the context in which it is defined. Always remove the context from a name if that doesn't decrease its readability.

```js
class MenuItem {
  /* Method name duplicates the context (which is "MenuItem") */
  handleMenuItemClick = (event) => { ... }

  /* Reads nicely as `MenuItem.handleClick()` */
  handleClick = (event) => { ... }
}
```

## Reflect the expected result

A name should reflect the expected result.

```jsx
/* Bad */
const isEnabled = itemsCount > 3
return <Button disabled={!isEnabled} />

/* Good */
const isDisabled = itemsCount <= 3
return <Button disabled={isDisabled} />
```

---

# Naming functions

## A/HC/LC Pattern

There is a useful pattern to follow when naming functions:

```
prefix? + action (A) + high context (HC) + low context? (LC)
```

Take a look at how this pattern may be applied in the table below.

| Name                   | Prefix   | Action (A) | High context (HC) | Low context (LC) |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ---------------- |
| `getPost`              |          | `get`      | `Post`            |                  |
| `getPostData`          |          | `get`      | `Post`            | `Data`           |
| `handleClickOutside`   |          | `handle`   | `Click`           | `Outside`        |
| `shouldDisplayMessage` | `should` | `Display`  | `Message`         |                  |

> **Note:** The order of context affects the meaning of a variable. For example, `shouldUpdateComponent` means _you_ are about to update a component, while `shouldComponentUpdate` tells you that _component_ will update on itself, and you are but controlling when it should be updated.
> In other words, **high context emphasizes the meaning of a variable**.

---

## Actions

The verb part of your function name. The most important part responsible for describing what the function _does_.

### `get`

Accesses data immediately (i.e. shorthand getter of internal data).

```js
function getFruitsCount() {
  return this.fruits.length
}
```

> See also [compose](#compose).

### `set`

Sets a variable in a declarative way, with value `A` to value `B`.

```js
const fruits = 0

function setFruits(nextFruits) {
  fruits = nextFruits
}

setFruits(5)
console.log(fruits) // 5
```

### `reset`

Sets a variable back to its initial value or state.

```js
const initialFruits = 5
const fruits = initialFruits
setFruits(10)
console.log(fruits) // 10

function resetFruits() {
  fruits = initialFruits
}

resetFruits()
console.log(fruits) // 5
```

### `fetch`

Request for some data, which takes some indeterminate time (i.e. async request).

```js
function fetchPosts(postCount) {
  return fetch('https://api.dev/posts', {...})
}
```

### `remove`

Removes something _from_ somewhere.

For example, if you have a collection of selected filters on a search page, removing one of them from the collection is `removeFilter`, **not** `deleteFilter` (and this is how you would naturally say it in English as well):

```js
function removeFilter(filterName, filters) {
  return filters.filter((name) => name !== filterName)
}

const selectedFilters = ['price', 'availability', 'size']
removeFilter('price', selectedFilters)
```

> See also [delete](#delete).

### `delete`

Completely erases something from the realms of existence.

Imagine you are a content editor, and there is that notorious post you wish to get rid of. Once you clicked a shiny "Delete post" button, the CMS performed a `deletePost` action, **not** `removePost`.

```js
function deletePost(id) {
  return database.find({ id }).delete()
}
```

> See also [remove](#remove).

### `compose`

Creates new data from the existing one. Mostly applicable to strings, objects, or functions.

```js
function composePageUrl(pageName, pageId) {
  return `${pageName.toLowerCase()}-${pageId}`
}
```

> See also [get](#get).

### `handle`

Handles an action. Often used when naming a callback method.

```js
function handleLinkClick() {
  console.log('Clicked a link!')
}

link.addEventListener('click', handleLinkClick)
```

---

## Context

A domain that a function operates on.

A function is often an action on _something_. It is important to state what is its operable domain, or at least an expected data type.

```js
/* A pure function operating with primitives */
function filter(predicate, list) {
  return list.filter(predicate)
}

/* Function operating exactly on posts */
function getRecentPosts(posts) {
  return filter(posts, (post) => post.date === Date.now())
}
```

> Some language-specific assumptions may allow omitting the context. For example, in JavaScript, it's common that `filter` operates on Array. Adding explicit `filterArray` would be unnecessary.

--

## Prefixes

Prefix enhances the meaning of a variable. It is rarely used in function names.

### `is`

Describes a characteristic or state of the current context (usually `boolean`).

```js
const color = 'blue'
const isBlue = color === 'blue' // characteristic
const isPresent = true // state

if (isBlue && isPresent) {
  console.log('Blue is present!')
}
```

### `has`

Describes whether the current context possesses a certain value or state (usually `boolean`).

```js
/* Bad */
const isProductsExist = productsCount > 0
const areProductsPresent = productsCount > 0

/* Good */
const hasProducts = productsCount > 0
```

### `should`

Reflects a positive conditional statement (usually `boolean`) coupled with a certain action.

```js
function shouldUpdateUrl(url, expectedUrl) {
  return url !== expectedUrl
}
```

### `min`/`max`

Represents a minimum or maximum value. Used when describing boundaries or limits.

```js
/**
 * Renders a random amount of posts within
 * the given min/max boundaries.
 */
function renderPosts(posts, minPosts, maxPosts) {
  return posts.slice(0, randomBetween(minPosts, maxPosts))
}
```

### `prev`/`next`

Indicate the previous or the next state of a variable in the current context. Used when describing state transitions.

```jsx
function fetchPosts() {
  const prevPosts = this.state.posts

  const fetchedPosts = fetch('...')
  const nextPosts = concat(prevPosts, fetchedPosts)

  this.setState({ posts: nextPosts })
}
```

## Singular and Plurals

Like a prefix, variable names can be made singular or plural depending on whether they hold a single value or multiple values.

```js
/* Bad */
const friends = 'Bob'
const friend = ['Bob', 'Tony', 'Tanya']

/* Good */
const friend = 'Bob'
const friends = ['Bob', 'Tony', 'Tanya']
```
